The 11.4 release of the Crynwr packet driver for the Digital
Semiconductor series of Ethernet controllers fixes the following
problems:
  o The receiver wasn't looping until all packets had been received,
    so that if an interrupt was lost, packet reception could be
    delayed until the next packet had been received.

The 11.3 release of the Crynwr packet driver for the Digital
Semiconductor series of Ethernet controllers fixes the following
problems:
  o The timer wasn't being hooked properly, so that when the tulip rx
or tx machine got confused, it wasn't being repaired quickly enough.
  o The send_pkt routine wasn't setting cy if a transmit error occurred

The 11.2 release of the Crynwr packet driver for the Digital
Semiconductor series of Ethernet controllers fixes the following
problems:
  o The set_address call was unimplemented.

The 11.1 release of the Crynwr packet driver for the Digital
Semiconductor series of Ethernet controllers is based on the 2.62 NDIS
2.0 (DOS) source code (with permission).  The 2.60->2.62 change fixes
the following problems:

	Mode: 21143 Autosense.  BNC media is not automatically detected.
This is an enhancement that has been made to the v2.62 driver.

	Mode: 21041 Autosense.  When AUI media is connected, driver
declares BNC.  This is an inherited bug that was in the v2.60 driver.
Fixed in v2.62.

The 11.0 release of the Crynwr packet driver for the Digital
Semiconductor series of Ethernet controllers is based on the 2.60 NDIS
2.0 (DOS) source code (with permission).  For the lineage of that
driver, see the release.txt that comes with it.

This driver has been tested with pdtstnet, ka9q's nos, Trumpet
Software International's Trumpet Winsock, and Beame & Whiteside's
BWTCP.  All three of the Ethernet controllers have been tested in two
different machines.  No anomolies have been seen (that haven't been
fixed :).

-russ <nelson@crynwr.com>
